The next element of project control is requirements management.
Requirements management is ensuring that all requirements are identified,
tracked, and managed.
So this is the potion of your project plan that describes what
requirements management means and how you will accomplish it.
Everyone would likely agree that requirements are a moving target,
so we need to be very disciplined on tracking and documenting our requirements.
So typically we collect our requirements up,
certainly before the project begins,
and maybe before the project's even approved the
requirements are updated and changed and worked on.
And they may be documented in a variety of ways.
We might use Microsoft Word or other tools to document the requirements,
workflow packages, PowerPoint, etc.
to get the project going.
Now the project begins.
Now what happens after that project begins?
Typically, everyone's starting to focus on writing the software,
everyone's busy worrying about deadlines,
and everyone's focused on that.
But the world doesn't stop.
Business keeps moving forward, requirements may need to be refined,
changed, updated because of the business,
and typically people aren't documenting those
requirements as they move and change, okay.
So it may be very small like I'm going to move a button over to the left.
Maybe we don't need to document that.
But a requirement could be quite large like maybe we need to
integrate data from two different legacy systems.
What does that mean?
We're going to use Web API; we're going to go right at the SQL database.
What's the interface?
What's the handshake?
We need to document those requirements.
So the issues that can arise if we do not do this certainly is
software engineers may not know what to do.
What are the requirements that you're to implement?
Do they just make things up?
Do they fill in the gaps on their own?
That happens a lot, and I find that is not right,
should always follow the requirements of the business community.
And users also would expect,
well gee I talked about a requirement in a business meeting,
I thought you wrote it down, and it wasn't implemented,
that's not good either, and that can happen quite often.
Also really important as well is the requirements document as long as it's keep
in line with the requirements and updated during the software development
process is a great artifact for testing the application.
You can just open up the specification, you can look at the workflow,
authentication, authorization or whatever is documented in there,
you can look at the different screens and go through those,
and it should work as that spec specifies.
So the end game is that your requirements document will
exactly match the system that's implemented.
I strongly recommend that.
I think it's very important as a PM that you ensure that happens.
Also,
you might want to check out one of my other Pluralsight courses
titled Best Practices of Requirements Gathering.
That might help in the process of gathering your requirements.
Here's a suggested requirements management roadmap or process for you to follow.
Now requirements management is really just a subset of
the entire change control process.
Remember we covered change control process as one of the
key elements earlier of project control.
But I find that requirements management is such an
important element of project control that I've call it out
special and put more detail here.
So, again, the goal of this process is to identify,
track, document,
and manage all requirements that affect your system
throughout the entire project lifecycle.
So let's walk through a basic requirements management process.
There's the requirements intake,
so this will be your signal entry point of gathering
requirements while the project is under way.
This may be you or a team member responsible for the
requirements management intake.
For each new requirement you want to review it,
analyze it, prioritize it, and determine its status and potential actions.
Now these actions may be to approve it,
let's move forward on it; we might want to put it on hold,
think about it a little longer or maybe get additional approvals; or
just not approve it and we're going to reject it.
Now, if approved, we want to update the specification document.
We want to develop a plan to support this requirement,
such as we may need more resources or budget or schedule and things like that.
If on hold,
we still want to update the specification document that the
requirement was received and is on hold or pending decision,
and we may want to document the reason behind that.
Also, if not approved,
we still want to update the specification document that the
requirement was received and not approved and document the
reason why it was rejected as well.
As you can see,
I recommend not only documenting the requirements you will implement,
but also the ones you will not.
Customers tend to forget or may misunderstand
requirements or system expectations,
and it is your job to ensure that you are clearly managing those expectations.
Okay, now let's see a simple example.
Now maybe this simple process will work for you.
Just a MS/Word or Excel document can do just fine.
Develop a template in Word or Excel that you can reuse on multiple projects,
and quite simply when requirements are added or
changed just document accordingly.
When they are removed,
you want to document that as well and the reason and rationale why,
and if they're on hold you also want to document them and
the reason and rationale why as well.
And again,
the end game is that your requirements document will exactly match your system.
That's what you always want to make sure happens.
Also regularly distribute the document to your stakeholders and your team, etc.
so everyone knows exactly what's in scope and what's out of scope. Okay, now let's check out the last of our project control elements.